# Welcome to Cv Maker

This project aims to create a simple API that allows the creation of a CV. 

The responsibility of the visual representation of the CV would be for a different application.

This app will just receive HTTP requests in order to Create, Read, Update and Delete: Contacts, Education, Work Experience and Skills.

For some context, I actually want this to be the backend for a different project that is private at the moment, you probably guessed it is my actual CV which I have written in React because... why not? xD 

So I am basing the requirements on that project. And this way you can use this on your CV and make a Frontend style for yourself with HTML and some JS...

## Setting up the project

In order to run the project you need to have PHP, Symfony command line tool and Composer installed.

After cloning the project just run inside the project folder:
- `composer install`
- `bin/console doctrine:database:create`
- `bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate`
- `symfony serve`

To run the tests run:
- `bin/console doctrine:database:create --env=test`
- `bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate --env=test`
- `bin/phpunit`

Some notices will be shown I ignored them for the sae of finishing the project on a Sunday, will improve on them.

The codebase can have graphql added in short time too but that was not a priority for now.

## API documentation

You have a Swagger interface to look at after you boot the project on `<host address>/api` that is generated by API platform.

The database for this project is sqlite I want it to be a local thing for my own use, so no need for booting up docker or install services on your machine. 

### Entities purpose and how to use them

Since this is a simple API for my own needs, I am not adding a lot of complexity.

On a normal application I would be adding createdAt, updatedAt and deletedAt(where soft delete is applied) fields. 

#### Contact

Contacts are the entries for your personal links, think of LinkedIn, email, github... 

On my CV I also add the city where I am based.

Since these will be transformed into a piece of paper I don't really add links just strings.

Therefore the contacts Entity have the following structure:

- **id**: _int_ (on an actual api I would use a string for uuids)
- **name**: _string_ (name of the entry)
- **content**: _string_ (the actual links, handles, etc...)

#### Education

I only have one education entry but clever people may have more, so we add a table for it.

the entity fields are:

- **id**: _int_ (same as above ...)
- **schoolName**: _string_ (name of the education institution)
- **degreeName**: _string_ (the name of the course/degree studied)
- **graduationYear**: _string_ (the year the studies were completed set to null if not completed)

#### WorkExperience

the entity fields are:

- **id**: _int_ (...)
- **companyName**: _string_ (name of the company)
- **role**: _string_ (the role played during this job)
- **startingDate**: _date_ (when the role started)
- **endingDate**: _date_ (if null it is an ongoing job)
- **description**: _text_ (description of the tasks performed in this job)

#### Skills

We may have different types of skills I am using an enum to list the possible values for the Type of skill, in the database this will ultimately be recorded as a string.

This entity is where I am saving experience with Languages(the spoken type too), Technologies and tools.

the entity fields are:

- **id**: _int_
- **type**: _string_
- **content**: _string_ 

---

This readme is being written before the code also works a bit like requirements for this API.

This is a personal project, for personal use, no need for Authentication/Authorization
